Dynamic remarketing goes beyond what can be referred to as regular remarketing.
Dynamic remarketing is based on specific product or service pageviews,
and the real dynamic part of
dynamic remarketing is generating highly customized ad creatives.
This of course comes with a price.
Dynamic remarketing does require
significant additional configuration versus regular remarketing,
but we do get a good start with schemas for different types of
verticals that we can configure dynamic remarketing for.
Let's consider the example of a user who
views the great Google hoodie on the Google Merchandise Store.
If the merchandise store team chose to do so,
they could implement dynamic remarketing.
So, when that same visitor was on another property,
they could see an ad creative that's specifically contains the gray hoodie.
Similar for vertical such as real estate,
if a visitor has viewed a specific home,
you as an advertiser,
could present that same home in an ad to the user when they're visiting other websites.
We can see that there are several schemas available for different verticals.
These schemas will allow us to configure
the additional information that the dynamic ads are generated from.
But before we look at the schemas,
let's walk through the process of configuring dynamic remarketing.
For dynamic remarketing, we're going to be working
with Google Analytics and Google AdWords,
and several steps will be required.
First, we're going to have to create
at least one custom dimension that will serve as
the key for that product or service such as product ID.
We'll then need to take the custom dimension or custom dimensions,
and map them as dynamic attributes to be used for dynamic remarketing.
We'll then need to create
a remarketing audience such as the one that we saw previously for non converting users.
On the AdWords' side,
we'll need to create a display campaign.
We'll target that campaign to
the remarketing audience that we've defined in Google Analytics.
We'll then need to download the feed template either from AdWords or from the help pages.
We'll then need to populate that feed template with
the additional information to base the ad creative on,
and will need to upload that feed to AdWords for
all schemas except for retail and for Merchant Center for the retail schema.
Now, the magic happens when the dynamic attribute from
Google Analytics is joined to the feed that AdWords is using.
So, Adwords knows to display
very customized ad creatives when they're
retargeting to users who visit other websites after yours.
Let's checkout dynamic attributes in the Google Analytics admin,
and let's also take a look at the feed and the schema that's used to organize the feed.
Back in the property admin,
under audience definitions, we can click dynamic attributes.
If we click new attribute,
we'll be asked to specify which schema,
which vertical, which business type as it's called here,we want to remarket for.
Let's say that we're configuring dynamic remarketing for a flight booking engine.
Under audience definitions, we can click dynamic attributes, new attribute.
Here's where we specify the vertical referred
to here as the business type, we'll select flights.
We can keep the view as the main view destination account,
specify the AdWords account that we want to configure dynamic remarketing in.
Now, here's where we're setting the key based on the custom dimension or
custom dimensions that we're passing to
Google Analytics when a flight results page is viewed.
Destination airport is required.
So again, we would have to configure this custom dimension,
send the custom dimension to Google analytics when
a flight pages viewed and then this would become our key.
Now, in some cases,
we can have other attributes contribute to the key as well.
If we roll over origin ID,
we see that the origin ID must match values from the origin ID column in your feed.
This is an optional attribute,
but if we want it to remark it based not only on
destination airport but on departure airport,
and we were capturing that as a custom dimension,
that would be our option,
so we could have a key based on destination,
airport and origin airport referred to as destination ID,
origin ID for the dynamic attributes.
The remaining attributes in this case allow you to
specify additional information that you could use in your ad.
If we roll over start date,
we see that if we populate this field,
the start date can be displayed right within the ad.
So, some of the additional information for the dynamic ad can come from attributes,
the rest of the additional information will come from the feed that we upload.
If we go back to the AdWords support pages and we click into flights,
we see the schema that will be reflected in
the feed template that we can populate an upload.
You can download the feed template from
AdWords or from the support pages as we can do here.
You could then populate this template with
the additional information about the flight and upload it to AdWords.
At that point, AdWords would be able to generate
highly customized ad for your target advertising audience.
With these configuration steps in place,
Google AdWords can now display ads that are customized
for the specific service or product that your visitor has previously viewed.